---
title: 'So this is happening...'
date: 2019-07-05 00:00:00
featured_image: '/images/posts/first.JPG'
excerpt: So this is happening. Yesterday, it was officially anounced that I'm transitioning from a Computer Scientist to an Engineering Manager. I'm beyond excited. This could get interesting...
---

## It's official

The last team update had some news in it. Starting in August after 7,5 years as a software engineer, I will be switching into the role of an engineering manager. I'll replace a respected colleague who is moving to another team in the same company, which develops a product which is closer to the end-user. Although, I'm playing around with the idea of getting into management for some time, in the end, the change came quite fast.

## How has it come so far

Just a week ago, our Head of Development asked for some time with me. I was expecting to be moved into a different engineering team, which needed more man-power and I seemed to have all the skills required. Instead, I was asked if I still have an interest in becoming an engineering manager.

A year ago or so, an opportunity arose. A new position as an engineering manager was opened. I was told it will be an entry-level position and quite some people motivated me to take the chance and apply for that job. So I did. After six interviews with people from different departments, it was just between me and another colleague who applied as well. Our management decided against me and in favor of my colleague who already had spent some time as a manager. By now, he is still in that position and is doing a great job.

I was frustrated, not because he got the job and I was declined, but because during all those interviews and my preparation for those, I recognized how much I wanted this job and how good that would match with my strengths and my goal to work more with people.

It took me some time, to get back to my engineering job fully motivated, but I decided to not give in and start working on getting a better candidate. Together with my manager, I looked for opportunities to build leadership skills. I was assigned an intern and started something we call "The Buddy System" by now, which is essentially a mentoring program for new-hires. Besides that, I was motivated enough to read everything related to people management and what it requires to become a good manager. And whether it was pure luck, or that motivation to work on my skills that resonated in our management, once a new position needed to be filled, I was asked. So I agreed.

## A new beginning

In only less than 3 weeks, I'll be starting the new adventure and I'm more than motivated. I read three books in parallel, start informal conversations with my new reports, and started writing this blog to reflect on my weekly experiences.

Today, I develop a cloud platform most of the day. From writing code to OnCall shifts, I'm a full-time engineer. At the first of August, I'll get a staff of 8 people and will most probably write zero lines of code any more (at least on a professional level).

I'm really looking forward to what's coming next, I assume many things to learn, to struggle with and to laugh about. Together with my team and my peers, I'm confident to master all those challenges.

<center>👨🏻‍💼</center>